MOS Descriptions:
Unmanned Aircraft System Officer 7315:
Unmanned Aircraft System MAGTF Electronic Warfare Officers (UAS/MAGTF EWOs) employ a network enabled and digitally interoperable UAS, from a Ground Control Station, to provide aviation fires and support across the full spectrum of combat operations
Flight Student 7599
Flight students (TBS) are undergoing or awaiting flight training that leads to designation as Naval Aviator
Air Traffic Control Officer 7220
The ATC Officer serve as watch commanders or detachment commanders at an expeditionary ATC detachment. They act as Facility Watch Officers or officers-in- charge at garrison ATC facilities. They may serve as Command Airspace Liaison Officers
Air Defense Control Officer 7210
Air Defense Control Officers work in the TAOC where they direct aircraft and surface to air missile assets for the interception of hostile aircraft and missiles. Air Defense Control Officers coordinate with intelligence resources to gather and share enemy targeting information to prosecute and direct deep air support missions.
Air Support Control Officer 7208
Air Support Control Officers plan, direct, and coordinate air support missions in support of MAGTF operations. They are responsible for processing immediate requests for close air support and medical evacuations, integrating aviation with other supporting arms, and procedurally controlling aircraft throughout the MAGTF area of operations.
Low Altitude Air Defense Officer 7204
Low Altitude Air Defense (LAAD) Officers command, or assist commanders in commanding Ground Based Air Defense (GBAD) units. They coordinate tactical employment of LAAD units through air command and control agencies, sensors, and other air defense weapons.
Aviation Supply Officer 6602
Aviation Supply Officers are unrestricted officers who may command, or assist in commanding a MALS. Aviation Supply Officers are responsible for planning, directing, and controlling the performance and execution of aviation supply functions within MAWs, MALS, Marine Corps Air Stations, Naval Expeditionary Vessels, and various Navy Type Command (TYCOM) and Systems Command (SYSCOM) staffs.
Aircraft Maintenance Officer 6002
Aircraft Maintenance Officers (AMOs) supervise and coordinate aircraft maintenance and repair activities. To be effective, 6002 AMOs must possess a detailed, working knowledge of all Navy-sponsored aviation maintenance programs and processes governed by CNAFINST 4790.2 series.
Military Police Officer 5803
Military Police Officers command, or assist in command, Law Enforcement forces and units and conduct mission assurance, law and order operations (LOO), military working dog (MWD) operations, limited detainee operations (LDO), planning and training, and US customs and border investigations. Military Police Officers function as supervisors, coordinators, and administrators of law enforcement matters and support MAGTF operations during peace, conflict, and war and have the capability to function across the ROMO.
Signals Intelligence and Electronic Warfare Officer 0206
Signals Intelligence/Ground Electronic Warfare (SIGINT/EW) Officers command and/or lead SIGINT/EW units in tactical information gathering operations and activities in support of identified collection requirements. SIGINT/EW Officers advise commanders and staffs on the employment of SIGINT and EW assets in support of information gathering and information operations and activities. Through the Intelligence Officer, they also support the overall intelligence effort of the command.
Manpower Officer - 0102
Manpower Officers are the principal advisor to commanders on manpower staffing and administrative issues that directly impacting unit readiness. In addition to understanding the organization, structure and doctrine of the Marine Corps, they must be comfortable processing and analyzing large amounts of data derived from human resource software systems.
MAGTF Intelligence Officer 0202
MAGTF Intelligence Officers are considered the subject matter experts on all intelligence disciplines and their application across the spectrum of military operations. They formulate plans, policies, and procedures pertaining to intelligence operations at all levels of the Operating Forces, Supporting Establishment, and Joint Commands.
Logistics Officer 0402
Logistics Officers plan, coordinate, execute and/or supervise the execution of all logistics functions and the six functional areas of tactical logistics: supply, maintenance, transportation, general engineering, health services, and services. Logistics Officers serve as commanders or assistants to the commanders of tactical logistics units/elements and as members of general or executive staffs in the operating forces, supporting establishment, and joint staff.
Light Armored Reconnaissance Officer 0303
Light Armored Reconnaissance Officers command or serve as assistant commanders in (LAR) battalions. They lead LAR units in reconnaissance, security, and combat operations by planning and directing the employment of armored reconnaissance vehicles to gather intelligence, screen friendly forces, and conduct offensive and defensive missions.
Judge Advocate 4402
Judge Advocates provide legal advice and support to commanders, Marines, Sailors, and their families to promote the readiness of the force and contribute to Marine Corps mission accomplishment.
Infantry Officer 0302
Infantrymen are primarily employed in units from the team to regimental level to locate, close with and destroy the enemy in all environments and weather conditions, day and night. All Infantrymen must be masters of field craft and proficient in the use and operation of small arms, demolitions, rockets, and mortars.
Ground Supply Officer 3002
Ground Supply Officers are a special Staff Officer that supervises the Commanders’ Property, Plant, & Equipment (PP&E) and Operating Material & Supplies (OM&S) to ensure data accuracy, existence, and completeness (equipment accountability, visibility, and auditability). They supervise and coordinate ground supply administration and operations for supply activities, units, bases, or stations, to include operating forces and shore station organizations
Ground Intelligence Officer 0203
Ground Intelligence Officers serve as commanders and staff officers in the operating forces and are responsible for tactical planning and employment of ground surveillance and reconnaissance units as well as the coordination of a unit's overall intelligence effort. Ground Intelligence Officers analyze and evaluate information; estimate the tactical situation; and formulate, coordinate, execute approved intelligence actions, operations, and activities to include offensive and defensive actions, reconnaissance, and fire support.
Financial Management Officer 3404
Financial Management Officers formulate and supervise the execution of policies and procedures pertaining to the financial management of appropriated funds in the operating forces and the shore establishment. The functional areas of assignment are: budget formulation and execution, finance, and resource evaluation and analysis.
Field Artillery Officer 0802
Field Artillery Officers command or assist commanders in directing field artillery units. They direct tactical employment of the field artillery unit in combat, and coordinate unit's fire with other artillery units with mortar, air, and naval surface fire support ships. They evaluate intelligence, plan targeting at all echelons, and direct administration, communication, supply, maintenance, and security activities of artillery units.
Expeditionary Ground Reconnaissance Officer 0307
EGR Officers plan, direct and assist in the deployment and tactical employment of Reconnaissance units. To fulfill these responsibilities, they evaluate intelligence; estimate the operational situation; and formulate, coordinate and execute appropriate plans for ground reconnaissance, amphibious reconnaissance, raids, fire support, special insertion and extraction, communications, operational logistics and maintenance.
Cyberspace Officer 1702
Cyberspace Officers command or assist in commanding a cyberspace operations unit or element. They supervise, direct, and provide guidance on all aspects of the employment of cyberspace personnel and systems. The Cyberspace Officer integrates the effects and capabilities of offensive and defensive cyberspace operations.
Space Officer 1706
Space Officers integrate space capabilities into operational planning and execution to support maritime operations. They advise commanders on the employment of space systems, represent Marine Corps interests in national security space matters, and contribute to the development of space architectures that meet naval operational requirements.
Counterintelligence/Human Source Intelligence Officer 0204
Counterintelligence/Human Intelligence (CI/HUMINT) Officers serve in both counterintelligence and human intelligence billets. They command and/or lead CI/HUMINT units in tactical information gathering operations and activities in support of identified collection requirements. CI/HUMINT Officers command, plan, and direct the employment and execution of CI/HUMINT units and approved operations and activities and advise commanders and staffs on information collection efforts and CI/HUMINT operations and activities. Through the Intelligence Officer, they support the overall intelligence effort of the command.
Communications Officer 0602
Communications Officers command or assist in commanding, a communication unit or element in the MAGTF. They are responsible for all aspects of the planning, installation, operation, displacement and maintenance of network, transmission and data systems to support the command and control of the MAGTF.
Communication Strategy and Operations Officer 4502
The CommStrat Officer develops communication plans; communicates with internal, domestic, and international audiences; and oversees the execution of plans and activities by 45XX occupational field Marines in support of operational and Service communication objectives.
Combat Engineer Officer 1302
Engineer Officers command or assist in commanding engineer units consisting of Marines in various MOSs whose duties include: repair, maintenance and operation of heavy equipment; engineer reconnaissance; obstacle system emplacement; breaching operations, to include reducing explosive hazards; mine/countermine operations; employment of demolitions and explosives; urban breaching; route clearance operations; assault, tactical and non-standard bridging; design, construction and maintenance of combat roads and trails; design and construction of expedient roads, airfields and landing zones; design and construction of survivability positions; expedient horizontal and vertical construction; and design, construction and maintenance of base camps/forward operating bases and combat outposts; storage and dispensing of bulk fuel products; and the installation, operation and maintenance of Tactical Utility Systems.
Assault Amphibious Vehicle Officer 1803
Assault Amphibious Vehicle Officers command, or assist in commanding, assault amphibian units and provide recommendations to the supported unit commander for the tactical employment of assault amphibian units. They also direct assault amphibian units on maneuvers, tactical problems, and in combat. In conjunction with the U.S. Navy units, they control the ship to shore movement of AAVs.
Air Intelligence Officer 0207
Air Intelligence Officers serve as the intelligence functional experts at all command levels of the MAW. They develop and execute intelligence plans, policies, and procedures that facilitate operations across the six functions of Marine aviation. They are the advisors to commanders, staffs, and pilots on intelligence activities, operations, and actions as well as the provider of intelligence products to support mission planning and execution. They also support the overall intelligence effort of the parent command or intelligence authority.
Influence Officer PMOS 1707
Influence Officers formulate plans and policies and coordinate and supervise activities pertaining to Influence Operations including military information support operations (MISO), civil affairs operations (CAO) and the integration of Civil Military Operations and provide the Commander a means to integrate operations in the operational and information environment to achieve desired outcomes. Influence Officers are trained personnel who can integrate operations in the information environment and primarily focus on the planning and execution of MISO, civil authorities’ information support (CAIS) and CAO. MISO are planned operations to convey selected information and indicators to foreign audiences to influence their emotions, motives, objective reasoning, and, ultimately, the behavior of foreign governments, organizations, groups, and individuals in a manner favorable to the originator’s objectives
Logistics Officer 040
Logistics Offi
Logistics Officer 04